
Hi John.

Is it possible to indicate what sample rules look for and what the
actions do?  Maybe you don't need to include the examples, but state
them.  Then it might be clearer what the re-ordering of rules is
about.  what sort of action do you want for some rejections and not
for others?  or, what sort of action do you want for things that
aren't rejections?

I guess one thing to also emphasize is that this provides the
framework for the rule clustering research that you've got in mind,
and that this provides an integrated data source on which to apply the
machine learning techniques.

A reviewer approaching this might ask the question:  why
not do machine learning on the logs directly -- what does
this initial processing add?

Can space be saved by attaching the glossary in the relevant
spots in the text as footnotes?

In terms of related literature that employs black-box analysis
along the lines that you've got going, attached is:

Jungwoo Ha, Christopher J. Rossbach, Jason V. Davis, Indrajit Roy,
David L. Chen, Hany E. Ramadan, Emmett Witchel "Improved Error
Reporting for Software that Uses Black-Box Components" In Proceedings
of the ACM SIGPLAN 2007 Conference on Programming Language Design and
Implementation (PLDI), San Deigo, CA June 2007.

(http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~witchel/pubs/)

This appears to be about doing what you're doing to improve what
you get out of the log reports of things like latex, among other
things.


Also:

This seems to be doing something located on the same planet, but with
software testing applications in mind.

http://www.site.uottawa.ca/~bernard/


And:

This raises a distinction between "simple pattern matching" and
"stateful pattern matching" (p9) -- the latter might be a term for us
to latch on to.  i guess a difference here is in the part of the
network that one is looking at -- yours is much more focused on
a particular part.
www.cisco.com/web/CA/events/pdfs/Designing_and_Deploying_ids_technologies.pdf

That last one might be too big for an email, though.... in fact, it
is.  It's on /tmp/ on wilde, though.

Well, I guess I'll go read the thing more slowly now.


I think it is worth emphazising the connection to Jungwoo Ha (et al.)
that your approach is one that could be turned to any scenario which
involves optimizing the behavior of a system by dealing with it as a
black box analyzed via extremely voluminous data logs.  Then, yours
has the added focus on stateful pattern matching (if that's what they
meant) attuned to the particular problem of mail monitoring on the
basis of envelopes alone, and not their contents.  

presumably on that basis there is application in areas of social
network analysis over ridiculously large data sets (such as the
recent case of identifying 17 phones in use in italy by the CIA
in terms of their network and timing of communications) in other
areas of research.  

it's a pretty big piece of foundation work that you've got here, isn't
it?

I hope this helps.

Carl



