

hi John,

i've had more interruptions than i thought i would today,
so this isn't very complete.  in fact, i think i'll go for
lunch shortly and take it with me.

my initial thought is that given the setting of an AI context,
the abstract creates the false impression that this will be
about parsing natural language.  it is interesting to speculate
on how this work relates to that, of course, but that's not
the main content of the paper.  

i think the introduction should drop in a citation or two to
work on content based spam filtering, and quickly point out that
this is to be viewed either as a tool for intelligent reasoning
about spam filtering (meta- spam-processing) or equivalently
emphasize that it is a tool for envelope (rather than content)
filtering.  we do need some sample lines from the log files
in there also.

mention is made of "the casual user" or something such, but
i think that mythic individual is very different from the
casual user of your average desktop application.  i think you're
trying to target three classes of folks aren't you?   mail system
experts, system administrator generalists, and system administrator
novices.  possibly the latter (i picture a department of 10 people
including one person who is charged with keeping the systems going
and who occasionally has a chance to poke into something like 
prioritizing spam filters out of curiosity) might be your notion
of a casual user?  basically, i think your sense of casual user
is someone far more aware of what's up than me or anyone in the
CLG.

would some space be saved by ditching references to wikipedia
and citing W Venema as ("Postfix documentation") just once
in the bibliography, with an indication of the relevant section
at the in-text place?

i see you found the abney thing, and i guess you're right that
this really isn't a cascade.  maybe it makes sense to state that
each rule applies once and that it isn't a cascade of rules,
and that reference could go, too.

i found some thing else that seems relevant, though.  i'll
send that separately.

take care,
carl

